# CAVE

Cavern of C code for command-line tools

## Introduction

The cave project is a trip back to prehistoric times when cavemen programmed
in C.

The caveman or programmer requires only a terminal to edit, build and run
programs.  The graphical user interface has not been invented yet.  The editor
of choice is vim, the build system is make, the version control system is git
and help is provided by man pages.

The caveman does not trust anything that is outside of his cave.  Everything
must be built by his own hands.  The number of dependencies must be minimal
such as libc and pthread.

## Objectives

Why go to the trouble?  What is there to gain from all this work?

### Relaxation

Life outside of the cave is stressful and dangerous.  Programming for leisure
like a caveman is relaxing.  There are no deadlines, no code reviews and no
managers looking over your shoulder.

### Nostalgia

Remember programming when it was fun?  Creating small programs that tested
individual language features or creating a text mode game.  Writing an entire
program in one sitting.  I do not propose that we go back to that type of
programming but I propose that we remember how things can be simpler.

### Practice

The best way to learn new (or old) programming techniques is to try them in a
sample application.  Every time I rewrite or refactor the code I learn
something new and improve my programming technique.  Even if the sample
application never achieves its goal it does not matter I learned something new
while writing it.

### Simplicity

In search of the simplest solution, not always the optimal or most efficient
solutions.  Less code, less data.  Use of C allows the programmer to write a
simple code without any smart pointers or design patterns.  When looking at
C code there is only a single layer of abstraction between the code and the
machine.

### Reinvention

The caveman is happy when he invents the wheel, the same goes for a programmer
who invents a linked list or a parser.  We know that it already exists but
it's fun reinventing.

## Conclusion

Join the cave project, become a caveman programmer and enjoy creating programs
that are made by your bare hands wielding prehistoric tools.
